ProgRAG: Hallucination-Resistant Progressive Retrieval and Reasoning over
Knowledge Graphs
Minbae Park* 1 , Hyemin Yang* 2 , Jeonghyun Kim2 , Kunsoo Park3 , Hyunjoon Kim†1,2
1

arXiv:2511.10240v2 [cs.AI] 9 Dec 2025

Department of Artificial Intelligence, Hanyang University, South Korea
2
Department of Data Science, Hanyang University, South Korea
3
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Seoul National University, South Korea
{pmb0323, hmym7308, gemma1126, hyunjoonkim}@hanyang.ac.kr; kpark@thoery.snu.ac.kr
Abstract
Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate strong reasoning capabilities but struggle with hallucinations and limited
transparency. Recently, KG-enhanced LLMs that integrate
knowledge graphs (KGs) have been shown to improve reasoning performance, particularly for complex, knowledgeintensive tasks. However, these methods still face significant
challenges, including inaccurate retrieval and reasoning failures, often exacerbated by long input contexts that obscure
relevant information or by context constructions that struggle
to capture the richer logical directions required by different
question types. Furthermore, many of these approaches rely
on LLMs to directly retrieve evidence from KGs, and to selfassess the sufficiency of this evidence, which often results in
premature or incorrect reasoning. To address the retrieval and
reasoning failures, we propose ProgRAG, a multi-hop knowledge graph question answering (KGQA) framework that decomposes complex questions into sub-questions, and progressively extends partial reasoning paths by answering each subquestion. At each step, external retrievers gather candidate evidence, which is then refined through uncertainty-aware pruning by the LLM. Finally, the context for LLM reasoning is optimized by organizing and rearranging the partial reasoning
paths obtained from the sub-question answers. Experiments
on three well-known datasets demonstrate that ProgRAG outperforms existing baselines in multi-hop KGQA, offering improved reliability and reasoning quality.

Code — https://github.com/hyemin-yang/ProgRAG

Introduction
Since the emergence of large language models (LLMs) like
ChatGPT, their remarkable reasoning abilities have demonstrated impressive performance in natural language processing tasks, particularly in question answering (Wei et al.
2022; Brown et al. 2020; Wang et al. 2022; Besta et al. 2024;
Yao et al. 2023). However, challenges such as hallucinations
and limited performance on complex, knowledge-intensive
tasks still persist (Ji et al. 2023). These limitations have
fueled growing interest in incorporating external structured
* These authors contributed equally.
†

Corresponding author.
Copyright © 2026, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.

Figure 1: Comparison between existing KG-enhanced
LLMs and the proposed framework. E, I, and C denote
External, Internal, and Core Supporting Evidences, respectively, and UQ in (b) indicates uncertainty quantification.

knowledge sources, especially knowledge graphs (KGs), to
enhance the reliability and accuracy of LLMs.
Recent advancements have led to the development of KGenhanced LLMs (Pan et al. 2024), which integrate KGs
in either the fine-tuning or inference phases. Despite these
improvements, LLM fine-tuning methods (Mavromatis and
Karypis 2024; Luo et al. 2023b,a) often require substantial computational resources and struggle to generalize effectively to unseen knowledge. A complementary line of
methods using KGs only in the inference phase, i.e., KGenhanced LLM inference methods, can be broadly categorized into two approaches in terms of retrieval, as illustrated
in Figure 1(a): (1) LLM-as-retriever approach in which the
LLM itself guides the retrieval process by leveraging its internal knowledge (corresponding to region I in the figure),
and (2) external retriever-based approach in which an external retriever extracts relevant reasoning paths or subgraphs
(corresponding to region E). Each approach relies on different sources of knowledge, i.e., internal or external, to retrieve supporting evidence for reasoning.
However, both approaches still face fundamental limitations. First, they often fail to retrieve accurate evidence. Second, even when correct supporting evidence is retrieved, the
LLM frequently generates an incorrect answer. In Figure 2,

we analyze representative failure cases on the CWQ dataset
for LLM-as-retriever methods like ToG (Sun et al. 2023)
and PoG (Chen et al. 2024), and the external retriever-based
method SubgraphRAG (Li, Miao, and Li 2024). We define
retrieval error as cases where the retrieved reasoning path or
subgraph does not contain the answer entity, and reasoning
error as cases where the answer is included in the retrieved
evidence but the LLM fails to generate the correct answer.
ToG and PoG exhibit high rates of both retrieval and reasoning errors.
In contrast, SubgraphRAG extracts the top-100 questionrelevant triples from the KG, thereby reducing retrieval error. Nonetheless, it still suffers from significant reasoning
errors. These results can be attributed to four key factors:
1. Relying solely on the LLM to navigate the extensive
search space of KGs is inherently ineffective, resulting
in substantial retrieval errors.
2. The self-assessment used by LLM-as-retriever methods
is prone to hallucination, often resulting in either premature termination or unnecessary continuation of the reasoning process.
3. Excessively long input contexts from numerous retrieved
triples or paths dilutes relevant evidence and hinders answer identification (Liu et al. 2023). This affects SubgraphRAG, ToG, and PoG alike.
4. Existing KG-enhanced LLMs have limited ability to handle richer logical structures beyond simple linear hops
(Zhu et al. 2025), leading to suboptimal contexts for
LLM reasoning, as later validated through our experiments.
To address the challenges of retrieval and reasoning errors particularly those arising from the hallucinatory behavior of LLMs, we propose a progressive retrieval and
reasoning framework, ProgRAG, as illustrated in Figure
1(b): (i) we decompose a complex question into sequential sub-questions, and answer each one iteratively, thereby
progressively extending reasoning paths. For this, we treat
the number of sub-questions as the exploration depth of its
complete reasoning path, adapting it to balance sufficient
reasoning with avoidance of over-exploration; (ii) for each
sub-question, our external retrievers produces relevant evidence supporting the answer for that sub-question from the
KG, which is then filtered by the LLM to improve precision. This retrieval-and-pruning process narrows the search
space, allowing the LLM to focus on a more relevant candidate set. Moreover, we adaptively increase reliance on external knowledge when the uncertainty of the LLM’s predictions is high; (iii) to reduce hallucination during reasoning, we refine and enhance the LLM’s input context using
effective prompting techniques such as prefix enumeration
and repacking, which structure the input to better emphasize relevant evidence, thereby improving the model’s ability to generate accurate and grounded answers. We evaluate
ProgRAG on three KGQA benchmarks—WebQSP, CWQ,
and CR-LT—and observe state-of-the-art performance on all
datasets. ProgRAG outperforms the best baseline by 3.3%
on WebQSP, 4.9% on CWQ, and 10.9% on CR-LT in accuracy.

Figure 2: Comparison of typical error cases in existing methods versus the proposed framework.

• We propose ProgRAG, a novel progressive retrieval and
reasoning framework for multi-hop KGQA that iterates
external retrieval and LLM-based pruning to address
both retrieval and reasoning errors.
• We first propose to refine the LLM context with various
reasoning paths, enabling ProgRAG to adaptively handle
different question types, improving the robustness and
generalization of reasoning.
• We conduct comprehensive experiments on three multihop KGQA datasets, demonstrating that ProgRAG
achieves state-of-the-art performance even with smaller
LLMs, e.g., Gemma2-9B-it, GPT-4o-mini, without finetuning.

Related Work
Most KG-enhanced LLMs can be categorized into two approaches based on how LLMs are utilized. Several methods (Mavromatis and Karypis 2024; Long et al. 2025; Luo
et al. 2024, 2023a; Xu et al. 2025; Luo et al. 2023b; Liu
et al. 2025a; Ao et al. 2025) incorporate KGs during the finetuning of LLMs.
However, these approaches often generalize poorly to unseen knowledge and incur significant computational cost
(Baek, Aji, and Saffari 2023; Axelsson and Skantze 2023;
He et al. 2024). An alternative line of work retrieves structured evidence from KGs and feeds it into LLMs for reasoning without fine-tuning, using either LLM-internal knowledge or external retrievers.
LLM-as-retriever methods rely on the LLMs to directly
explore the KG and iteratively accumulate requisite information. StructGPT (Jiang et al. 2023a) generates executable
SQL queries to extract relevant KG evidence. ToG (Sun et al.
2023) explores multiple reasoning paths within a predefined
exploration breadth by retrieving query-relevant relations,
followed by the corresponding entities. PoG (Chen et al.
2024) decomposes the question into sub-tasks and prompts
all sub-tasks, along with the question, to the LLM to guide
answer prediction. Building on ToG’s framework, ReKnoS
(Wang et al. 2025) and MFC (Zhang et al. 2025) further extend the search space using super-relations or meta-entities.
However, due to unfiltered exploration, these methods often

retrieve suboptimal paths and exhibit hallucination tendencies (Liu et al. 2023; Dhole 2025).
External retriever-based methods adopt a pipeline in
which fine-tuned external retrieval models efficiently extract
relevant subgraphs or reasoning paths from the KG (Jiang
et al. 2022, 2023b; Liu et al. 2024). SubgraphRAG (Li,
Miao, and Li 2024) integrates a lightweight MLP with a parallel triple-scoring mechanism for subgraph retrieval. KGCoT (Zhao et al. 2024) explores KG stepwise from question
entities, generates reasoning paths via transition matrices,
However, these methods either retrieve excessive structural
information or fail to leverage LLMs’ internal knowledge
during retrieval, resulting in low reasoning accuracy due to
both irrelevant volume and insufficient precision.

Preliminaries
Knowledge Graph (KG). A knowledge graph is a set of
factual triples, denoted by G = {(e, r, e′ )|e, e′ ∈ E, r ∈
R}, where E is a set of entities and R is a set of relations.
Each triple (e, r, e′ ) represents a fact indicating that the head
entity e is connected to the tail entity e′ via relation r.
Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA). Given
a natural language question q, a knowledge graph G, and
a set of key entities Eq ⊆ E extracted from q, the goal of
KGQA is to predict the set Aq ⊆ E of answers to the question q by performing reasoning over G.
Reasoning Path. A reasoning path is a sequence of consecutive triples in a KG, denoted as (e0 , r1 , e1 ) → (e1 , r2 , e2 ) →
... → (ed−1 , rd , ed ), where each triple (ei−1 , ri , ei ) ∈ G.
This sequence forms the reasoning trajectory from a key entity e0 toward predicting the answer entity ed . A prefix of a
reasoning path is a subsequence of consecutive triples taken
from the beginning of the path. It consists of the first k triples
of the full reasoning path where k ≤ d.

Method
Overview
Figure 3 illustrates the ProgRAG framework, which performs three stages. First, ProgRAG identifies key entities
from a given question, and initializes a partial reasoning
path as each key entity, and decomposes the question into
multiple sub-questions in the question decomposition stage.
Second, in the sub-question answering stage, ProgRAG iteratively answers each sub-question by extending the partial reasoning paths obtained from the previous iteration. Finally, in the prefix enumeration and repacking stage, ProgRAG reorganizes all complete reasoning paths and their
partial reasoning paths to form a structured context. The
LLM then infers the final answer based on this context.

Question Decomposition
In this stage, ProgRAG decomposes a question into simpler sub-questions. Specifically, we first identify key entities, i.e., the entities central to the semantics of the question.
The LLM decomposes the question into sub-questions and
associates each one with its corresponding key entity, which
is called key entity mapping. For every key entity es , the
LLM further decomposes its initial sub-question into more

granular ones if possible; retains this sub-question as atomic
otherwise. The full prompt is provided in Appendix K. Consequently, we obtain a chain Qes = {q1 , ..., qd } of subquestions for every key entity es , where the depth d represents the number of reasoning steps, i.e., iterations, in the
subsequent stage. In this manner, ProgRAG can dynamically
adjust the exploration depth depending on the question complexity, enabling more flexible and precise reasoning. Previous work such as Chain-of-Question (Yixing et al. 2024)
also decomposes a complex question. Unlike our method,
this decomposition does not take key entities into account.

Sub-question Answering
For simplicity, we focus on a question with a single key entity, but our method can be easily extended to a question with
multiple key entities. From the key entity and its chain of
sub-questions, the sub-question answering stage iteratively
finds the answer to each sub-question by extending the partial reasoning paths one hop at a time. At the first iteration,
the source entity for each sub-question is the key entity; in
subsequent iterations, the source entity is the answer entity
from the previous iteration. At each iteration i, ProgRAG
takes the source entity and sub-question qi as input, and
performs four procedures: (1) relation retrieval, (2) relation
pruning, (3) triple retrieval, and (4) triple pruning, as shown
in Figure 31 .
Relation Retrieval Seminal prior work in KGQA struggles with retrieving relevant relations from the KG, despite
its significant impact on question answering quality. On the
one hand, some methods pass a large number of relations
linked to the final entities of partial reasoning paths to the
LLM (Sun et al. 2023), leading to context overload. On the
other hand, other methods retrieve relevant relations from
the entire KG (Zhao et al. 2024), often neglecting the local
context needed for step-wise reasoning.
For progressive relation retrieval, we select candidate relations Rre (qi ) from the KG that are contextually relevant
to a given sub-question qi . To address the aforementioned
limitations, we utilize a SentenceBERT-based cross-encoder
(Reimers and Gurevych 2019, 2020) to score and rank onehop triples (si , r, e′ ) ∈ G connected to the source entity si
based on their semantic relevance to qi . The top-m unique
relations with the highest scores are selected as Rre (qi ).
Relation Pruning For source entity si , sub-question qi ,
and Rre (qi ), the LLM selects the top-n (n ≤ m) relevant
relations Rpr (qi ) ⊆ Rre (qi ). All relations in Rre (qi ) are
sorted in descending order of their semantic similarity to
qi in this prompt. To encourage the LLM to articulate its
step-by-step reasoning, we apply Chain-of-Thought prompting (CoT) (Wei et al. 2022) leveraging our key observations on the Freebase KG widely used in this study: this
KG organizes each relation into a three-level hierarchy, i.e.,
domain.source type.target type. This hierarchy captures the
semantic structure of the relation and its alignment with the
1

For questions with multiple key entities, their corresponding
sub-question chains are solved independently, and the resulting reasoning paths are fed into the next stage.

Figure 3: ProgRAG operates in three stages: (1) Question decomposition, where the question is split into sub-questions based
on a key entity; (2) Sub-question answering, where partial reasoning paths are progressively extended through retrieval and
pruning; and (3) Prefix enumeration and repacking, where all prefixes of the reasoning paths are enumerated and reordered.
Finally, the LLM infers the answer based on these prefixes.
associated triple, e.g., the relation of the triple (“Lou Seal”,
“sports.mascot.team”, “San Francisco Giants”) consists of
domain sports, source type mascot, and target type team.
Using CoT, the LLM infers three elements step by step:
(1) the type of source (e.g., mascot), (2) the target type (e.g.,
team), and (3) a relational phrase that links them semantically (e.g., “mascot for”). We observe that each sub-question
typically corresponds to a single-hop triple, making the stepby-step reasoning process highly compatible with the question decomposition.
In contrast to the prior work (Sun et al. 2023) where the
LLM directly evaluates the relevance of all retrieved relations to the question without the structure-aware step-bystep reasoning, we leverage hierarchical relation structure to
enable the LLM to identify the relevant relations through
reasoning. This process enhances interpretability and consistency.2 The full prompt is provided in Appendix K.
Triple Retrieval As noted earlier, excessively long contexts can impair the focus of LLM on relevant information,
increasing the risk of hallucinations and retrieval errors (Liu
et al. 2023, 2025b). To construct a more compact context, we
prune unpromising candidate triples unlikely to lead to the
2
Although this prompt is designed for hierarchical relations, it
also performs effectively on CR-LT, a Wikidata-based dataset without hierarchical relation structure, where we observe consistently
strong performance.

answer for qi based on their relevance to qi . The set Tqi of
candidate triples consists of all triples that include the source
entity si and any relation in Rpr (qi ). The relevance score
between a triple and qi is computed by summing two components: (1) the textual semantic-based triple score, and (2)
the structure-based entity score.
Textual Semantic-based Triple Scoring We employ a biencoder architecture composed of two MPNet-base models (Song et al. 2020), each generating embeddings for qi
and for every t ∈ Tqi , respectively. The textual semanticbased triple score Φt is computed by applying a softmax to
the cosine similarity between the sub-question embedding
xqi and the triple embedding xt , capturing their textual semantic relevance:
Φt (qi ) = softmax({cos(xqi , xt )}t∈Tqi )

(1)

The encoders are fine-tuned using the InfoNCE (Oord, Li,
and Vinyals 2018) loss to learn semantic alignment between
sub-questions and their corresponding golden triples.
Structure-based Entity Scoring In KGs, relations carry
rich contextual information, making relation-centric approaches crucial for reasoning tasks (Wang, Ren, and
Leskovec 2021). To leverage this, we employ a querydependent graph neural network (GNN) (Luo et al. 2025),
which is designed to focus on the semantic relevance of relations in the context of specific queries. We embed all re-

lations in the graph and the sub-question qi using the pretrained text encoder (Li et al. 2023). Each entity is initialized
with a zero vector, with the exception of the source entity si ,
which is assigned the sub-question embedding.
After passing through all GNN layers, we obtain the final
representation for each entity in the graph. Let Eqi be the set
of all tail entities in Tqi . The representations of all entities in
Eqi are concatenated and passed through an MLP followed
by a softmax function, producing a probability that each e ∈
Eqi is the answer entity for qi :

triple retriever. Finally, the reordered prefixes and the question q are fed into the LLM, guiding it to focus on the most
relevant evidence and improving the accuracy of its answer.
By carefully manipulating partial reasoning paths, the LLM
reasons from prefixes that capture intermediate states, better
aligning even partial paths with the nuanced semantics of the
question, particularly when answers lie in the middle of reasoning paths or when multiple constraints must be satisfied.

Φe (qi ) = softmax(MLP(concat({he }e∈Eqi )))

To demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of ProgRAG on multi-hop KGQA, we conduct comprehensive experiments to address four research questions; (RQ1) How
effective is ProgRAG in the multi-hop reasoning for the
KGQA task?; (RQ2) How does each component in ProgRAG contribute to the overall performance?; (RQ3) How
accurately does ProgRAG retrieve ground-truth reasoning
paths?; (RQ4) How efficiently does ProgRAG perform
multi-hop reasoning?

(2)

For each t ∈ Tqi , we compute the probability ut that triple t
is the answer triple for qi :
ut = softmax(Φt (qi ) + Φe (qi ))

(3)

The above two components offer complementary perspectives, i.e., semantic relevance and structural context, enhancing both the accuracy of triple ranking. Finally, top-p sampling (Holtzman et al. 2019) is applied over the probabilities ut , sequentially selecting triples in descending order of
probability until the cumulative score exceeds a predefined
threshold p.
Triple Pruning For the sub-question qi , let Tre (qi ) denote the set of triples remaining after top-p sampling. From
Tre (qi ), we aim to obtain answer triples, with the source entity si as the head and the predicted answer to qi as the tail.
Specifically, all triples t ∈ Tre (qi ) are sorted in descending order of ut and provided to the LLM along with qi .3
ProgRAG then assesses the reliability of the LLM outputs
to detect its potential hallucinations, preventing error propagation in multi-hop reasoning, which is called “Uncertainty
Quantification”.
ProgRAG measures the aleatoric uncertainty (AU) of the
LLM outputs by applying evidential modeling (Sensoy, Kaplan, and Kandemir 2018; Ma et al. 2025) to the top-K logits at the generation step in which the LLM produces the
first token of the answer entity. If the uncertainty exceeds a
predefined threshold, indicating low model confidence, the
response is refined with the top-l triples from Tre (qi ) as external evidence. Otherwise, the response is accepted as is. If
qi is the final sub-question, the model proceeds to the subsequent stage; otherwise, it continues to the next sub-question
qi+1 .

Prefix Enumeration and Repacking
In the final stage, the LLM infers the answer to the question q based on all reasoning paths explored thus far. To
enhance its reasoning ability, we enumerate all prefixes of
every reasoning path, which are then included in the LLM
context, as shown in Stage 3 of Figure 3. Next, we rank the
prefixes by their semantic relevance to q, as scored by the
3
If the LLM identifies plausible answers in Tre (qi ), it then outputs them; otherwise, it returns “None”, indicating insufficient evidence. In such cases, ProgRAG returns to the relation pruning step
with the unused relations in Rre (qi ) \ Rpr (qi ) to explore alternative paths, thereby enabling early termination of incorrect reasoning and reducing redundant inference.

Experiments

Experimental Setup
We adopt three publicly available multi-hop KGQA
datasets: WebQuestionsSP (WebQSP) (Yih et al. 2016),
ComplexWebQuestions (CWQ) (Talmor and Berant 2018),
and CR-LT-KGQA (Guo, Toroghi, and Sanner 2024).
Dataset statistics and details are provided in Appendix A.
As per prior works (Sun et al. 2023; Chen et al. 2024), we
use exact match accuracy (Hit@1) as our primary evaluation
metric. We use two small-scale LLMs for reasoning, i.e.,
Gemma 2-9b-it and GPT-4o-mini. Since black-box LLMs
like GPT-4o-mini do not provide access to their logits, uncertainty quantification is only applied when using Gemma
2-9b, which is the main LLM for most experiments. Other
implementation details are further documented in the Appendix B.

Baseline Methods
We evaluate the performance of ProgRAG against a diverse
set of baselines spanning four major categories: (a) LLMonly prompting methods (Brown et al. 2020; Wei et al. 2022;
Wang et al. 2022); (b) Fine-tuned LLM-based methods (Luo
et al. 2023b; Liu et al. 2025a; Yu et al. 2022; Ao et al. 2025);
(c) LLM-as-retriever methods (Sun et al. 2023; Chen et al.
2024; Jiang et al. 2023a; Wang et al. 2025; Zhang et al. 2025;
Liang and Gu 2025); (d) External retriever-based methods
(Zhao et al. 2024; Li, Miao, and Li 2024).4

RQ1: Main Results
As shown in Table 1 and Table 2, ProgRAG outperforms
all baselines on WebQSP, CWQ, and CR-LT. Even without fine-tuning, ProgRAG with Gemma2-9b surpasses finetuned LLMs, outperforming RoG by 2.8% on WebQSP and
11.1% on CWQ. Compared to LLM-as-retriever methods,
4
We do not extensively compare with fine-tuning-based
(Mavromatis and Karypis 2024) or semantic parsing approaches
(Luo et al. 2023a; Xu et al. 2025), as they follow fundamentally
different paradigms from our retrieval-augmented setting.

